---
author: P.Gitau
categories: Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning
title: Exploring the Capabilities of Chat GPT a comprehensive guide
date: 2022-12-01T15:25:01.000Z
draft: false
description: Generative Pre-trained Transformer 3 is an autoregressive language
  model that uses deep learning to produce human-like text
image: ""
cover-photo: bunnie abc
category: Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning
tags:
  - Open AI
  - Chat GPT
  - Ai
cover:
  alt: Open AI logo
  caption: "image credits: Open AI"
  image: /uploads/openailogo.webp
---
[Chat GPT ](https://chat.openai.com/chat)(**Generative Pretrained Transformer**) is a type of natural language processing [(**NLP**)](https://blog.bunnieabc.com/posts/what-is-chat-gpt-and-why-you-need-it/#what-is-natural-language-processing-nlp) technology that uses machine learning algorithms to generate human-like responses to text-based inputs. It is developed, owned, and maintained by [Open AI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenAI) a company founded by **Elon Musk**, **Sam Altman** & **Greg Brockman**. Open AI has also created other technologies like [Whisper](https://openai.com/research/whisper), and [DALL-E 2](https://blog.bunnieabc.com/posts/what-are-the-best-ai-image-generator-tools/#dall-e-2httpsopenaicomdall-e-2), an AI system that can create realistic images and art from a description in natural language. Chat GPT technology is based on a type of language model known as a **Transformer**, which uses attention mechanisms to process and generate text.

Chat GPT works by training a **large neural network** on a large corpus of text data, such as articles, books, or conversation transcripts. The model uses this training data to learn the patterns and structures of human language, including grammar, syntax, and vocabulary. Once trained, the model can be used to generate responses to input text in a way that is similar to how a human would respond.

## How to use chat GPT?

The model is designed to be able to hold conversations on a wide range of topics, so users can ask ChatGPT about anything that they are interested in. The model may not have knowledge about every topic, but it will do its best to generate a **relevant** and **coherent** response based on the information it has been trained on.

One thing to keep in mind is that ChatGPT is a text-based model, so it is not able to see or hear anything. This means that users will need to type their messages for ChatGPT to be able to understand and respond to them.

### Chat GPT signup.

Chat GPT can be accessed from [[chat.openai.com](chat.openai.com)](chat.openai.com). Users need to sign up for an **Open AI** account and verified via OTP.

***Steps:***

1. Go to the [[chat.openai.com](chat.openai.com)]() website.
1. Click on the "Sign up".
1. A **sign-up** form will be populated, choose your preferred OAuth method.
1. Fill out the form on the sign-up page with your email address, password, and other required information.
1. Click on the "Sign Up" button to complete the sign-up process.
1. Now [log-in.](https://chat.openai.com/auth/login)

Overall, interacting with ChatGPT is similar to having a conversation with another person, except that the responses are generated by a machine learning model instead of a human. Users can ask ChatGPT questions, make statements, or engage in a conversation to explore different topics and ideas.

## How to save a ChatGpt conversation

After making really good prompts and having a really meaningful conversation, you may want to save the conversation for either future reference or create some form of documentation. Here is how to save a chatGPT conversation.

`**chat GPT Save Conversation.**`

Recent versions of the chatGPT user interface have seen an introduction of features like a clipboard (copy button), and a shareable link to a specific conversation - which is really sick. To copy a conversation simply click on a reply provided by the chatbot and paste it anywhere you'd like, edit to remove any unwanted parts and that's it.

To get a link to a conversation navigate next to the title of the conversation, there notice three icons

- Pen icon to edit the title of the conversation.
- **An outbox icon to show the link to the conversation you intend to share - this is the feature we are talking about.**
- A delete Icon to discard a conversation.

You can also use browser extensions like` [SaveGPT](https://savegpt.com/) `to save the conversation we will cover more extensions in the future.

### How to solve the "Too many requests error"

While using the model, you might be fascinated by the answers and run out of requests. Once this happens:

Click new chat to start a brand new chat.

***Reload the page using the icon between the home and forward arrow icons*** or simply **Ctrl + R** or **Command + R**

## What is Natural language processing (NLP)?

Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of artificial intelligence that deals with the interaction between computers and humans using human-understandable language, such as English. It concerns the development of algorithms and models that can understand, interpret, and generate human language, with the intent of allowing better communication between humans and machines. NLP has an expansive range of applications, including language translation, text summarization, sentiment analysis, and question-answering. It is involved in many modern technologies, such as smart assistants, predictive text, and digital phone calls.

## Where can chat GPT be used?

1. **Customer service:** Chatbots can be used to assist customers with common questions or issues they may have. For example, a chatbot could be used to help customers track their orders, make returns or find information about a product or service.
1. **Educational support**: Chatbots can be used to give information and even answer questions on a wide range of data. For example, a chatbot could be used to help students with their homework, explain difficult concepts, or provide information about a particular subject.
1. **Personal assistants:** Chatbots can be used to help users manage their daily tasks and schedules. For example, a chatbot could be used to remind users of appointments, manage their to-do lists, or provide directions to a particular location.
1. **Social companionship:** Chatbots can be used to provide a sense of social connection and engage in conversation with users. For example, a chatbot could be used to provide emotional support, listen to users’ concerns, or simply engage in casual conversation.
1. **content generation:** Chatbots can be used in content generation e.g. by using the model to suggest ideas or prompts for writers to explore. For example, a user could provide a general topic or theme to ChatGPT, and the model could generate a list of potential subtopics or angles that the writer could explore

***Resources:*** [[OpenAI.com](OpenAI.com)](), [chatGPT](chat.openai.com)

1. **Increased convenience:** Chatbots can provide quick and easy access to information or assistance without the need for human intervention. This can save time and effort for users who need information or assistance on a particular topic.
1. **Improved accuracy:** Chatbots can provide consistent and accurate responses based on the information they have been trained on. This can be particularly useful for tasks that require a high degree of accuracy, such as providing educational support or customer service.
1. **Enhanced personalization:** Chatbots can be tailored to the specific needs and preferences of the user. For example, a chatbot could be trained on a particular topic or area of expertise, such as a particular subject in school, to provide personalized information and assistance.
1. **Greater accessibility:** Chatbots can be accessed by anyone with an internet connection, making them a convenient and accessible option for users who may not have access to other forms of information or assistance.
1. **Cost savings:** Chatbots can provide information or assistance at a lower cost than hiring human workers to perform the same tasks. This can be particularly beneficial for businesses that need to provide customer service or support on a large scale.
1. **Increased efficiency:** Chatbots can operate 24/7 and can handle multiple tasks or conversations simultaneously, making them more efficient than human workers who may need breaks or can only handle one task at a time.
1. **Improved user experience:** Chatbots can provide a more engaging and interactive experience for users, allowing them to ask questions and receive instant responses. This can be particularly useful for tasks that require a high degree of interactivity, such as educational support or social companionship.## What are the challenges of using a chat GPT and other models?

   1. GPTs are trained on a large amount of text data, which means they can generate responses that are fluent and coherent. However, they may not always provide accurate or relevant answers to questions, especially if the questions are outside the scope of the training data.
   1. GPTs like ChatGPT 1 → 3.5 are not able to browse the internet or access external information sources, which means they may not be able to answer questions requiring real-time or up-to-date information.
   1. GPTs are not able to learn from the interactions they have with users, which means their responses may not improve over time or become more personalized.
   1. GPTs may generate responses that contain biased or offensive language, which can be a concern for users who are sensitive to these issues.
   1. GPTs are not able to interpret the tone or context of a conversation, which can lead to misunderstandings or inappropriate responses.
   1. GPTs may not be able to handle complex or open-ended questions, and may instead provide generic or repetitive responses.
   1. GPTs may not be able to handle multiple concurrent conversations, and may instead get confused or provide irrelevant responses.




